I, Steven, take you, Emily,
to be my wedded wife.
I, Emily, take you, Steven,
to be my wedded husband.
I had no doubt our vows were forever.
Nothing could have prepared me
for the heartbreak.
I never expected her to be unfaithful
and unwilling to work things out.
I felt humiliated.
How could she do such a thing?
I was embarrassed,
and I didn’t want to talk to anyone.
I read somewhere that time
would help me heal
and just to stay busy.
It seemed to work.
But I was constantly reminded of what I lost:
our spiritual goals,
the hopes and dreams we had
—all destroyed.
I didn’t want to dwell on the hurt,
but I just couldn’t ignore it.
Was I really coping?
Or was I leaving myself open
to even more pain?
Brothers and sisters,
we’re going to talk about marriage today.
If we turn to Ephesians chapter 5, . . .
I was angry, but not just with Emily.
I was angry with everything.
Steven!
Hey, let me stop by tomorrow.
What I had to say,
I wouldn’t have blamed Tom for judging me,
but he didn’t.
You’re right, Steven.
I can’t understand how you feel.
But you know who can.
Do you remember Psalm 34?
I think verse 18 says it best.
Can you read it for us?
“Jehovah is close to the brokenhearted;
he saves those who are crushed in spirit.”
Isn’t that a beautiful scripture?
Take advantage of Jehovah
being that close to you,
and include him in everything.
Jehovah is  a loving Shepherd.
When we hurt, he cares.
I knew this, but in a way, I’d forgotten.
I realized I hadn’t included Jehovah
in the ways I tried to cope.
Staying busy was important,
but I needed to draw closer to God,
not push away.
And when I did,
the real healing began.
Even though the pain is still there,
Jehovah sees the tears;
Jehovah feels what I feel.
It is getting better, slowly,
because “Jehovah is close
to the brokenhearted.”